Installation instructions for GIMP Help
---------------------------------------

This package includes prebuilt help files for The GIMP 2.0 as well as
the XML sources that are needed to rebuild the HTML files.

If you downloaded this tarball to install the help files, you don't
need to worry about how to build the files. Just run the usual
commands to install the prebuilt help:

 ./configure
 make
 make install  (you need root priviledges for this last step)

In order for configure to locate the GIMP installation, pkg-config
needs to find gimp-2.0.pc. This file is installed with GIMP. If you
installed GIMP by means of binary package, you may have to install
the GIMP development package that provides gimp-2.0.pc.


If you want to work on the help content, you should enable the build
of the help files by using the --enable-build configure option:

 ./configure --enable-build

The GIMP help documents are written in Docbook XML. Since the GIMP
help browser wants HTML files, the documents need to be converted.
This is done as an XSLT [1] using xsltproc [2].


If you encounter any problems during the build, these are likely
caused by the XSLT processor not being able to locate stylesheets it
needs to do the transformation. You should have an XML catalog file
that helps the XSLT processor to locate your locally installed
stylesheets. In case you are missing such a catalog file or it is
incomplete, you can specify the location of the stylesheets
explicitely, for example:

 ./configure --with-xsl=/usr/share/sgml/docbook/stylesheet/xsl/nwalsh


By default we do not allow the XSLT processor to attempt to download
external resources. If you have a fast internet connection, it may be
useful to allow xsltproc to fetch DTDs or entities over the network:

 ./configure --enable-network


If you want to test the built help files without installing them, you
can create a symlink from $prefix/share/gimp/2.0/help to the html
directory or set the environment variable GIMP2_HELP_URI.


In case you just want to play with the help files without having GIMP
installed, you can disable the check for gimp-2.0 like this:

 ./configure --without-gimp



-- The GIMP-Help team.


[1] http://www.w3.org/TR/xslt
[2] http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/xsltproc.html
